I promised Guangcai
I'd take good care of you all for him.
Now that he's gone,
I want to take Chuchu abroad.
And you, of course.
You don't need to worry
about life abroad.
I'll take care of everything.
I really appreciate your thoughtfulness.
But it's not necessary.
We won't be going with you.
Is there anything left here
worth holding onto for you?
I just don't want to get tangled up
in your affairs anymore.
The most important thing right now
is to watch over Chuchu
as she grows up.
If you don't agree,
Guangcai won't rest easy.
- Chuchu.
- Mom.
Please think it over.
After all, it's Guangcai's wish.
Thanks for the kindness.
But it's not what I want.
- Say goodbye to her.
- Goodbye.
=The Silent Rift=
=Episode 16=
(The Silent Rift)
So diligent.
Laoer.
Just you? Where's Qianqian?
Qianqian is about to take Gaokao.
Her mom took her home first.
Officer Zhu,
let's talk.
Yes, he has a lot
he wants to say to you.
It's mealtime now. Go on.
Okay.
Leave it to me.
Alright. The leg massage is done.
Laosan's arm is a bit stiff.
Got it.
Okay.
Laosan,
listen to me.
The case is solved.
It even made the papers.
Let me read it to you.
"Eighteen-Year-Old Cold Case Cracked."
"All Suspects Captured."
Happy?
Captain Li,
you picked such a fancy place.
What's this about?
Zhu,
I owe you an apology.
You know I've got a hot temper.
I know I shouldn't have
treated you that way.
But as you know, on this matter,
I just couldn't contain my anger.
And my usual attitude
towards you was really...
Actually, I know that with my master
lying there for so many years,
you took it harder.
But I never considered how you felt.
I'm sorry.
Anyway,
whether you forgive me or not,
I'll drink.
That's all?
Not yet.
There's one thing
I still can't figure out.
Meng Guangcai
suddenly confessed.
What's the real reason behind this?
Was it really for the kids,
as he claimed?
Anyway,
I feel
there must be some other reason
we haven't thought of.
Mr. Chen, I'm sorry.
(Rongfa Noodle Shop)
Guangcai and the others are tied up
with the IPO. They couldn't come.
You and Xiaoliang
are heading abroad soon.
It's time for me
to go back to Shaguai Village.
I'll join Xiaoliang
to visit his new school.
Once he's settled in,
I'll come back to see you.
Don't worry about me.
I've lived a long life.
I've seen it all.
Qin, you are the smartest
among those kids
who came from Shaguai Village.
Raise Xiaoliang well.
Make sure he walks the right path.
I'll take Grandpa home first.
(Rongfa Noodle Shop)
Principal Chen. Principal Chen, hello.
- Haven't seen you in years.
- Hello.
Are you doing alright?
- Not bad.
- Still so spirited.
I need to tell you something.
The high-speed rail is coming
through our Magou Town.
All these houses here
will be demolished.
Actually, let me
tell you something else.
Truth is, this house
hasn't been lived in since it was built.
Since the house is registered
under your name,
how about you sign here?
I support the village's plan.
Thank you so much.
The village just needs
to arrange a place for me to live.
No problem, Principal Chen.
Come on. Take it easy.
Okay.
(Chen Rongfa)
I heard Principal Chen
went back to Shaguai Village.
Principal Chen is getting old.
He wanted to go back,
so we had to respect his wishes.
How is Xiaoliang?
He drove Principal Chen home.
When are you leaving?
The day after tomorrow. All's set.
So fast? That's good.
He's doing quite well in there.
He asked me
to give this to you.
I've never given him anything.
That year, I just wanted
to get him a nice watch.
I didn't expect he'd wear it till today.
It's clear you're important to him.
Zhu, did you call me here today
just for this?
Actually, old things
can bring back many memories.
But things have changed.
People just can't go back.
Zhu, is there anything else today?
Nothing. I'm just curious.
When Meng Guangcai was taken in,
rushed over anxiously to find me,
inquiring about the situation
and defending him.
Now that he's completely confessed
and volunteered the truth,
you seem less concerned about him now.
I never expected them
to commit that crime.
Now things have come to this.
I've done all I can.
You should know.
You're important to him, after all.
Meng Guangcai has confessed
that they were actually engaged
in a planned crime.
It was an organized conspiracy.
All the suspects' stories
were prearranged.
One person taught them.
That's Meng Guangcai.
They're a tight-knit alliance
who move together,
cover for each other,
and coordinate as one.
This alliance is a script.
It's a perfect story.
Because this seemingly flawless script
had me wandering aimlessly inside
for many years.
Do you know the purpose of their script?
I don't know what you're talking about.
Their goal is very clear
and it's sole.
To get as many out as they can.
If someone can't escape,
the ones inside
will cover for the ones outside.
If none can escape,
then everyone will cover for one person,
which is Meng Guangcai.
Isn't it very logical?
I'm not sure.
Of course.
It's logical.
Because they know,
as long as Meng Guangcai is there,
everyone's later years
might be prosperous.
But everywhere there seems to be logic,
something illogical always surfaces.
For example, Jiao Lijun.
He voluntarily put himself in here.
That's very odd.
For example, Xue Yonghui.
He'd rather reveal his left hand
and all his secrets
in front of the police
and still wanted Huang Mantang dead.
That's very odd.
So I always feel
among all the truths,
there is always a part
that remains unclear.
As if something is being hidden.
Until Meng Guangcai
finally said one thing to me.
He said he's never really changed.
He's still the Meng Guangcai
I've always known,
who is young and loyal,
works with vigor,
lacks scheming,
doesn't play mind games,
and doesn't like planning.
So I suddenly realized
Meng Guangcai
is also part of this script,
and he's just an actor too.
So tell me,
whom is Meng Guangcai
acting for?
(Construction Site, Beiyan County, 1993)
Guangcai, I didn't want this either.
But Dazhu insisted I get a gun.
Can you shut up? I'll speak for myself.
Well, if you're not using it,
I'll just throw it in the river.
Throw what?
Guangcai, here's what I think.
If something happens,
we can use this to get us through.
To get us through?
Why are we doing this?
Using a gun? If someone gets killed,
everything changes then.
I'm just thinking about our safety.
Guangcai, should we keep it?
We keep it if so.
I'll have him throw it if not.
Guangcai, whether to use the gun
is a big deal.
You must think this through.
Xiaoliang's life
and Mr. Chen's life
are both on us.
Either we don't do it,
or we make sure it's done.
Qin.
We do it, but not recklessly.
They need evidence to arrest someone.
With these train tickets,
we can prove you weren't in Beiyan
during that time.
That way, it's foolproof.
It has to be foolproof.
Even if we save Xiaoliang,
he can't be without a father.
It won't happen.
Back then, you hopped the train
out of town to create an alibi.
You actually fooled me for years
with that one thing.
(Train from Beiyan to Jinwan, 1993)
Guangcai,
we're here.
To hell with it.
Guangcai.
(Jinwan Station)
Move aside! Move!
Huang Mantang still hasn't shown up.
No idea if he got caught or ran off.
Going back now is too risky, isn't it?
Move aside! Move! Head out!
We've done all we can.
Going back now
is actually the safest move.
Move aside! Move!
Don't worry so much.
I actually think
making some noise now is better.
Noise?
Noodles are ready, Guangcai.
The train is coming in! Hurry!
Coming! Coming!
What are you two doing?
Move aside! Move!
What are you doing? Watch out.
Sorry, I-I wasn't paying attention.
You got my clothes all dirty.
I'm so sorry. It's my bad.
I'll clean it all up later.
Okay. Clean it up later.
Alright.
- Watch out next time.
- Okay.
At the robbery scene,
Xue Yonghui showed up unexpectedly.
Though it was an accident,
the job got done in the end.
Then things were quiet for a few years.
You took the stolen money
to the building materials market
and started a business to launder it.
But who knew
the Hao brothers would show up then?
Just like Zuo Long back in the day,
they bullied you even worse.
Then, at the right time,
a fire broke out at Baima Market.
Everyone knows
that fire was an accident
caused by old wiring.
Was it really an accident?
(Beiyan County Hospital, 1999)
(Baima Building Materials Market)
Fire! Quick!
Quick! Fire!
Fire! Put it out!
- Put out the fire!
- Fire!
Put out the fire!
- Put out the fire!
- Fire!
- Someone!
- Come out and help!
Put out the fire! Quick!
Fire! Put it out!
Put out the fire! Hurry!
Hurry!
(Authorized Personnel Only)
Fire! Put it out!
Quick! Fire!
Help! Hurry!
Put out the fire! Quick!
- Put out the fire!
- Fire!
- Quick!
Quick! Quick!
Hurry! Everyone, hurry!
Quick! Fire!
Fire! Put it out!
Don't tell Guangcai.
Zhu, you think too highly of me.
I'm just a country woman.
Then, in 2006,
Huang Mantang, hooked on drugs,
suddenly came back to Beiyan.
That's when you felt real danger.
Guangcai, why come here?
Starting today, we're doing something
very important here.
What?
We've hidden for years, always afraid
the police would find us.
Starting today,
we need to take some initiative.
You once told me
you don't remember who raped you.
But you pointed suspicion
towards Zuo Long.
So at the abandoned factory,
when Huang Mantang
was about to reveal the truth,
Xue Yonghui took the initiative
and killed him.
Now, let's talk about Meng Guangcai.
He knew perfectly well
that even if he got lucky
and got out this time,
I would keep watching him
until I uncovered all the truth
about the 6.10 case
and revealed it to the world.
Rather than that,
it's better to close the case now.
Then why did he do that?
What was he trying to hide,
or what was he trying to protect?
Or was he trying to protect you?
I didn't rob anyone.
Why would they protect me?
If you know the answer, you can tell me.
(Outskirts of Shaguai Village,
Magou Town, 1999)
Help! A pervert!
Move!
Help!
Move! Move!
Someone!
You wretch! Meng Guangcai made me
do two years of hard time.
I'll collect some interest from you.
Help!
Qin,
did anyone see you
on your way back to the village?
No.
What do we do now?
Serves him right.
He did that to Qin.
He deserved to die.
Find a place to bury him.
If this comes to light,
put it on me.
Xue Qin,
we don't have direct evidence
to convict Meng Guangcai.
He could have just walked out.
But he confessed voluntarily.
He voluntarily confessed everything
and went to prison.
The price is too high for him.
There must be something
that forced him to do that.
If you know the answer,
please tell me.
Hello, Mom?
Mom, Shaguai is fine.
I want to stay with Grandpa
a few more days.
We should get ready to leave.
Mom, do you know
the old house is being demolished?
They're building a high-speed rail.
Mom, let me stay two more days, okay?
I'm coming now.
What is that?
Stop! Stop!
Get closer.
What could it be?
What good thing is it?
Human bones! Human bones!
This is a murder!
Call the police! Call the police!
I saw something nice
at the supply and marketing cooperative.
I bought it for Qin.
It's so pretty.
Mr. Chen understands Qin best.
Qin loves red.
Master.
Shaguai Village...
A skeleton has been found there.
It might be linked to Xue Qin.
Find out where Xue Qin is.
Master,
what does the body
have to do with Xue Qin?
Beside the skeleton
unearthed beneath their house,
there was a red hairpin.
Chen Rongfa remembers it was
a birthday gift he gave to Xue Qin.
Faster!
Catch up!
Get ahead and cut her off!
Xue Qin,
Zuo Long has been found.
The red hairpin Principal Chen gave you
has also been found.
(Higher Education Admission Letter)
(Suspects Xue Qin
and Huang Mantang deceased.)
(No prosecution for them.)
(Defendant Wang Dazhu,
guilty of robbery,)
(is sentenced to life imprisonment.)
(Defendant Xue Yonghui,
guilty of homicide,)
(negligent severe injury,)
(and illegal possession of drugs,)
(is sentenced to death.)
(Caisheng Group's illegal gains
are confiscated by law,)
(and relevant victims
are compensated according to law.)
(I want to sail far away.)
(Defendant Jiao Lijun,
guilty of robbery,)
(homicide, and arson,)
(is sentenced to death.)
(Defendant Meng Guangcai,
the principal,)
(convicted of robbery,
is sentenced to death.)
One, two, three, four!
Loyalty and unity!
Rigor and dedication!
One, two, three, four!
Loyalty and unity!
Rigor and dedication!
One, two, three, four!
Loyalty and unity!
Rigor and dedication!
Left, right, left!
One, two, three, four!
Loyalty and unity!
Rigor and dedication!
=The Silent Rift=